README.md, before:

# Win2D

Win2D is an easy-to-use Windows Runtime API for immediate mode 2D graphics
rendering with GPU acceleration. It is available to C#, C++ and VB developers
writing Windows apps for Windows 8.1, Windows Phone 8.1 and Windows 10. It
utilizes the power of Direct2D, and integrates seamlessly with XAML and
CoreWindow.

##### Where to get it
- NuGet packages for
    [Windows 10](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Win2D.uwp) or
    [Windows / Phone 8.1](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Win2D.win81)
- [Source code](http://github.com/Microsoft/Win2D)

##### How to use it
- [Documentation](http://microsoft.github.io/Win2D)
- [Sample code](http://github.com/Microsoft/Win2D-samples) -
    *also available in the [Store](https://www.microsoft.com/store/apps/9NBLGGGXWT9F)*

##### More info
- [Report a bug or ask a question](http://github.com/Microsoft/Win2D/issues)
- [Team blog](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/win2d)
- [License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
- [Contributing](http://github.com/Microsoft/Win2D/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Code Example
To give you a flavor of what the code looks like, here is a snippet of XAML:
```xml
xmlns:canvas="using:Microsoft.Graphics.Canvas.UI.Xaml"

<Grid>
    <canvas:CanvasControl Draw="canvasControl_Draw" ClearColor="CornflowerBlue" />
</Grid>
```
and C#:
```cs
void canvasControl_Draw(CanvasControl sender, CanvasDrawEventArgs args)
{
    args.DrawingSession.DrawEllipse(155, 115, 80, 30, Colors.Black, 3);
    args.DrawingSession.DrawText("Hello, world!", 100, 100, Colors.Yellow);
}
```
or VB:
```vb
Sub canvasControl_Draw(sender As CanvasControl, args As CanvasDrawEventArgs)
    args.DrawingSession.DrawEllipse(155, 115, 80, 30, Colors.Black, 3)
    args.DrawingSession.DrawText("Hello, world!", 100, 100, Colors.Yellow)
End Sub
```

## Using Win2D

The [documentation](http://microsoft.github.io/Win2D) explains how to install Visual 
Studio, add the Win2D NuGet package to your project, and get started using the API.

## Building Win2D from source

##### Requirements
- Recommended: Visual Studio 2015 with Update 1
- Visual Studio 2013 Update 5 is also supported (for Windows 8.1 or Windows Phone 8.1 development only)

##### Clone Repository
- Go to 'View' -> 'Team Explorer' -> 'Local Git Repositories' -> 'Clone'
- Add the Win2D repository URL (https://github.com/Microsoft/Win2D.git) and hit 'Clone'

##### Build NuGet Packages
- If using Visual Studio 2015:
  - Launch 'MSBuild Command Prompt for VS2015'
- If using Visual Studio 2013:
  - In Windows search, type 'Visual Studio Tools', and select that folder to open it
  - Launch 'Developer Command Prompt for VS2013' 
- Change directory to your cloned Win2D repository and run 'build'

##### Point Visual Studio at the resulting 'bin' directory
- In Visual Studio, go to 'Tools' -> 'NuGet Package Manager' -> 'Package Manager Settings'
- Choose 'Package Sources'
- Click the '+' button to add a new source
- Set 'Name' to 'Win2D' (or a name of your choosing)
- Set 'Source' to the full path to the 'bin' directory (inside your cloned Win2D repository)
- Click the 'Update' button
- Click 'OK'

Locally built versions of Win2D are marked as prerelease, so you must change the 'Stable 
Only' setting to 'Include Prerelease' when adding them to your project.

---
This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact
[opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

Commit message:

Switch Win2D UAP builds from Windows SDK 14346 to 14393 (which is the final Win10 Anniversary Update SDK)

README.md, after:

# Win2D

Win2D is an easy-to-use Windows Runtime API for immediate mode 2D graphics
rendering with GPU acceleration. It is available to C#, C++ and VB developers
writing Windows apps for Windows 8.1, Windows Phone 8.1 and Windows 10. It
utilizes the power of Direct2D, and integrates seamlessly with XAML and
CoreWindow.

##### Where to get it
- NuGet packages for
    [Windows 10](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Win2D.uwp) or
    [Windows / Phone 8.1](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Win2D.win81)
- [Source code](http://github.com/Microsoft/Win2D)

##### How to use it
- [Documentation](http://microsoft.github.io/Win2D)
- [Sample code](http://github.com/Microsoft/Win2D-samples) -
    *also available in the [Store](https://www.microsoft.com/store/apps/9NBLGGGXWT9F)*

##### More info
- [Report a bug or ask a question](http://github.com/Microsoft/Win2D/issues)
- [Team blog](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/win2d)
- [License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
- [Contributing](http://github.com/Microsoft/Win2D/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Code Example
To give you a flavor of what the code looks like, here is a snippet of XAML:
```xml
xmlns:canvas="using:Microsoft.Graphics.Canvas.UI.Xaml"

<Grid>
    <canvas:CanvasControl Draw="canvasControl_Draw" ClearColor="CornflowerBlue" />
</Grid>
```
and C#:
```cs
void canvasControl_Draw(CanvasControl sender, CanvasDrawEventArgs args)
{
    args.DrawingSession.DrawEllipse(155, 115, 80, 30, Colors.Black, 3);
    args.DrawingSession.DrawText("Hello, world!", 100, 100, Colors.Yellow);
}
```
or VB:
```vb
Sub canvasControl_Draw(sender As CanvasControl, args As CanvasDrawEventArgs)
    args.DrawingSession.DrawEllipse(155, 115, 80, 30, Colors.Black, 3)
    args.DrawingSession.DrawText("Hello, world!", 100, 100, Colors.Yellow)
End Sub
```

## Using Win2D

The [documentation](http://microsoft.github.io/Win2D) explains how to install Visual 
Studio, add the Win2D NuGet package to your project, and get started using the API.

## Building Win2D from source

##### Requirements
- Recommended: Visual Studio 2015 with Update 3 and Universal Windows App Development Tools 1.4.1
- Visual Studio 2013 Update 5 is also supported (for Windows 8.1 or Windows Phone 8.1 development only)

##### Clone Repository
- Go to 'View' -> 'Team Explorer' -> 'Local Git Repositories' -> 'Clone'
- Add the Win2D repository URL (https://github.com/Microsoft/Win2D.git) and hit 'Clone'

##### Build NuGet Packages
- If using Visual Studio 2015:
  - Launch 'MSBuild Command Prompt for VS2015'
- If using Visual Studio 2013:
  - In Windows search, type 'Visual Studio Tools', and select that folder to open it
  - Launch 'Developer Command Prompt for VS2013' 
- Change directory to your cloned Win2D repository and run 'build'

##### Point Visual Studio at the resulting 'bin' directory
- In Visual Studio, go to 'Tools' -> 'NuGet Package Manager' -> 'Package Manager Settings'
- Choose 'Package Sources'
- Click the '+' button to add a new source
- Set 'Name' to 'Win2D' (or a name of your choosing)
- Set 'Source' to the full path to the 'bin' directory (inside your cloned Win2D repository)
- Click the 'Update' button
- Click 'OK'

Locally built versions of Win2D are marked as prerelease, so you must change the 'Stable 
Only' setting to 'Include Prerelease' when adding them to your project.

---
This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact
[opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.
